# Journal Questionnaire

### How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
* To write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable I need to follow various industry best practices. These best practices that enable maintainability include keeping the code base minimal, focused, modular when possible, and show have been well tested. Industry best practices that promote readability include well named functions and variables instead of common single character naming conventions. Additionally, inline and external documentation increases the readability of your code. I won't be the only person to work with a set of code and as such need to communicate requirements, design choices, and other environmental concerns to other team members. When creating modular code for increased maintainability you also create increadibily adaptable code. This means that code that might have been rewritten in multiple places throughout a project can instead be repurposed quickly. When considering the CRUD module in this project I can consider how my implemented industry best practices contributed to its maintainability, readability, and adaptability in these ways. Working with middleware such as the CRUD module in this project enables for rapid changes in functionality without other members of your team to update the code base. This means in the future another team could implement further business logic and robust logging systems without disturbing the rest of the project. This wouldn't be possible if throughout the project teams implemented their own variations of the PyMongo driver.


### How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
* Approaching issues as a computer scientist means breaking down issues into logical components and grouping characteristics to be built as modular components for reuse. Computer scientists further optimize issues by thinking of the issue algorithmically. This algorithmic thinking includes creating design patterns, data structures, and architecture that naturally solve the issue instead of brute forcing solutions through pessimal avenues. Considering how I approached the dashboard for the client in this project I focused on optimal uses for a typical user and designed a user experience and user interface that accomdates their needs such as additional filter capabilities. My approach to this project differed from other courses assignments at SNHU by considering a clients needs. Up until this course it was nearly all theoritical problems without a user. Understanding how a user would benefit from designs meant taking a new critical perspective in this project. In the future I can incorporate researching frameworks that enable a robust final product or rapid prototyping for clients. Additionally, creating middleware in future projects would enable myself or my team to continue modularizing our work.


### What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
* Computer scientists work in almost every field in this modern age. Computer scientists are first and foremost problem solves that have been various technologies as their tools within their toolbox. It matters what computer scientists do because without a firm understanding of availables tools in an industry we wouldn't see such large effenciency increases that we enjoy today. The work done in this project would help a companies connect with more clients without the overhead of sales staff. The dashboard in this project presents structured data directly for clients to build empirical ideas. This means that information can't be misinterpreted from a human but instead enables a client to understand all available solutions. 
